Day-1
-----
-----
Full stack Developers
--------------------
---------------------
Fullstack-->Frontend + Backend


Frontend
--------
--------
Frontend is a visual and interactive layer of a website or application that users directly 
see and interact with through a web server or mobile app
It is also called the client side because it runs on the users
device(browser/mobile)


Responsibilities of Frontend
1.Display Web pages and User interface.
2.accepts user input(forms, buttons, search boxes)
3.validates user input before sending it to the server
4.calls backend API to fetch or send data
5.display the response received from backend.
6.provides animations and interactive effects.
by preparing frontend layer we are using some technologies like HTML CSS JS Bootsrap

Backend
---------
---------
Backend is the server-side part of an application
users cannot see it directly,but it performs all the business logic,security,data
processing and database operations.

It acts as the brain of the application

Responsibilities of Backend
--------------------------
process clients request
implements business logic
connects with database
performs Crud operations
Authenticates and authorize users
Encrypts passwords and Authorize users.
generate reports
returns responses to the frontend.
we have to some languages to build backend java,.net, python, C++

API(Application Programming Interfaces)
--------------------------------------
API is a set of rules and protocols that allows two different  applications or systems
to communicate and exchange data without exposing their internal implementation,

it acts as bridge between the frontend and backend between two different software systems.

Advantages of APIS
-----------------
enables communication between different systems.
promotes code reusability
platform independent 
faster application development
supports integration with third - party -services
improves scalability 
easy to maintain.

Storage Areas
------------
------------
As part of our applications we required to store data like customer info, billing-info, calls info...etc
To store these data we require some storage areas.

there are two types of storage areas such as
1.Temporary storage Areas
-------------------------
-------------------------
these are the memory areas where all the data will be stored temporarly.
example:all JVM Memory areas like (heap,stack,methodraea,pc,registers,native methodstack)
once JVM is shutdown all these memory areas will be cleared automatically

2.Permanent storage Areas:
It is also Known as persistent storage areas.where data will be stored permanently

Example:Filesystem,Databases,Dat warehouses...etc

File Management Systems(FMS)
A File Management System is a system where data is stored in files on the operating systems,
each applications program must handle its own storage data retrival and updating file system
can be provided by the local operating systems.

File Management System are best suitable for to store very less amount of information

Example: a library management system storing books in a separate text file likes books
txt,members.txt etc

Limitations of File Management Systems
1.Data Redundency:same data will store in multiple times
2.Data Inconsistency : updates i one file may not reflected in another.
3.poor data security:no proper accessed control
4.Difficult Data Retrieval : Searching requires custom  programs
5.Integrity Issues : No constraints (Ex: rollNumber uniqueness)
6.Scalability issues:Hard to manage as data grows
To Overcome the above problems in file systems we should go for databases.

DBMS:Data base Management System
A DBMS is a collection of programs that enables users to create, manage and manipulate databases

it acts as an interface between user and databases.

Advantages
----------
1.We can store huge amount of information in databases.
2.Query Language support is available for every databases and hence we perform database operations
3.To access data present in the database. compulsory username and password must be required hence data is secured
4.Inside database data will be stored in the follws of tables while developing database table schems database admin fallows 
various normalization techniques and we can implement various constraints like Unique Key,primary ke,Foregin Key.. etc
which present data duplication hence there is no chance off data inconsistency problems

Limitations of Data Base
-------------------------
1.Databse Cannot store huge amount of information like (terabytes)
2.Database can provide supports for only structured data (tabular data or relational data) and cannot provide supports 
for unstructured data or semi-structed data like videos, audioes, umlaut)

To overcome these problems we should go for some more advanced databases like Datawarehouse, big data

Differences between File Management Systems and Data base Management System
---------------------------------------------------------------------------















 















 

 